# getting-cleaning-data-exericise
Exercise: from the course on coursera getting and cleaning data. 

<b>Theme</b> : Data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone <br>
<b>Goal</b> : We want to create the tidy data set from the collected autogenerated data.

There are 5 steps are performed strating from downloading data to the creating tidy dataset.
Such steps are performed using R script in the file run_analysis.R.
Steps performed in the scripts are as below:


<li> step 1: We are first of downloading required dataset. 
        We are unzipping and storing them in a folder named 'data'
<li> step 2: We would like to read the load the files(test & train) which we want to clean.
        After loading we would like to merge those respective files so we can clean them together.
<li> step 3: We would load the merge table and would like to fetch the specific informative columns.
        Such columns would be like -mean(fBodyBodyGyroMag-mean()), -std(fBodyBodyGyroMag-std()).
        We would like to change the name to Camlecase and remove comas.
<li> step 4: Extracting data for the selected column and store in the vector.
        Binding all the data together x_data, y_data, and s_data, and merge x, y(activity) and subject data. 
        replace y(activity) column to it's name by refering activity label (loaded step 3)  
<li> step 5: Generate 'Tidy Dataset' that consists of the average (mean) of each variable for each subject and each activity. 
        The result is shown in the file tidy_dataset.txt.
